I am now opening myself up to the possibility of pursuing any of the following [[career advice from 80,000 hours|occupations]]:
- Fundamental ML research
- Healthcare ML engineering / research
- Algorithms Academic 
- AI safety

How am I going to go about doing this?
1. Study ML myself
2. Get a ML UROP
3. Take some ML classes
4. internship?

---

Why am I making this decision?
> I want to work on problems that people care about. 
   This exists in TCS, but not in the same way. In TCS it's about what people think is cute. 
   I think that's not so sustainable for me. 
   In these other fields it's more about what can save / improve lives, or anyways there's maybe a more objective framework for analyzing what is useful and what is not. 
   I think this objective importance of questions also fosters more hard work and collaboration. 
>
This seems more likely to lead to having a positive impact on the world, and to career satisfaction.

---

EDIT: oh, hmm, actually I am feeling a lot better about doing algorithms research after
- recovering from being sick
- talking to a friend about this. 
- Realizing that there are actually algorithms researchers that make a huge impact on the world.   The problem is just finding the right questions to ask. oh, yeah that's right.oh, yeah that's right.

So anyways, I think this is probably not going to result in me abandoning theory. 
Instead I hope the positive results of my period of reflection will include: 
- Regarding the "problem finding" part of doing research as important, and practicing the problem finding skill more. 
- Remembering [[your work is not your worth]]
- Being more open to trying different problems 