> Q: How should you talk to people?

#todo

### general principles
- Sometimes it's good to [[listening|listen]]; sometimes it's good to talk. You need to kind of gage this by the person. Of course in an optimal situation usually you will arrive at some equilibrium of having a single conversation where all parties are engaged. 
- But sometimes more unbalanced modes of communication are ok / can be reasonable starting points. For instance, when talking to someone "shy / not-talkative (yet)" it can be pretty reasonable to give a long enthusiastic rant about something.

### specific techniques
- "Tell me about your research"
- [[listening]]
- What is a problem that has been troubling you recently?
- What is something that went amazingly well recently?
- What hobbies are you pursuing recently. How are these going?
- What are you looking forward to doing?
- Are there any projects you really wish you could work on right now but aren't?
- Tell me your life story. 
- Tell me about your family.
	- Note, for this you need to be more specific than this. 
	- e.g., tell me about your cousin X.
- What are your similarities and differences to person X?
- How similar would people say you are to your parents? Are they correct?
- Tell me about your name?
- With multiple people, can be fun to say "find property in each region of the ven-diagram generated by the set of people present"; Note that this question requires exponential time in the number of people present. But, probably lots of things do, so it's best to limit your interactions to groups of about 4 people so that you can solve problems that require exponential time. Unless of course you are trying to do distributed computing in which case, you might want a lot of people. 

### examples of good talking

