$\newcommand{\C}{\mathsf{C}}$
$\newcommand{\opt}{\mathsf{OPT}}$
So, we are going to need to be a bit more specific than just the $1.5$-greedy canceler strategy described in [[phi-cancel-width-zero]]. Like we are going to be $1.5$-greedy, but $1.5$-greedy is not a fully specified strategy. It doesn't say what order to run parallel tasks in. 
So, here's my spicy order:
> Of the tasks which I haven't decided to serialize yet, prioritize running the ones with the latest values of $\sigma_i+t_i$. That is, the ones that we'd be the most surprised to learn that $\opt$ serialized. 

As always, we invoke [[opt-gaps]] to say that it suffices to analyze TAPs with no OPT gaps.

**Theorem:**
This instantiation of $1.5$-greedy-canceler is $1.5$-competitive on TAPs with no OPT gaps. 

**proof:**
In [[phi-cancel-width-zero]] we argued that WLOG the set of tasks that we serialize is a subset of the set of tasks that $\opt$ serializes. 

Let $t_*$ be the moment of *awful realization*; i.e., the earliest time when our estimate of $\C_\opt$ reaches the actual final value of $\C_\opt$. In other words, the moment we realize we've made big mistakes, but it's so late that it would also be too terrible to contemplate to abandon all our meager progress and start over. 
Let $J$ be the amount of parallel work that we do in excess of $\opt$.
Let $G$ be the amount of parallel work that $\opt$ does. 
Let $G_*$ be the parallel work that $\opt$ does before time $t_*$.
Without loss of generality we have $G-G_* = \C_\opt - t_*$.

Ok, but there are two saving graces. 
First, because we were prioritizing running tasks with late finishing dates, we have
$$
\C_{us} \le J+G.
$$
Second, the fact that we had been predicting until $t_*$ that the tasks contributing to $J$ were too horrendously large to even contemplate serializing, but then we were wrong, means that something surprising happened. In particular, we have for any $\tau_i$ contributing to $J$:
$$
\C_\opt+t_* \ge \sigma_i + t_* \ge 1.5\C_\opt \ge 1.5 (J+G_*).
$$
The main inequality of note in the above chain of inequalities is the final one. But the reason its true is that we didn't expect $\opt$ to serialize the tasks contributing to $J$. 
**On second thought I actually don't  believe this inequality lol RIP.** 
Wait no maybe it is actually true?
TODO: be a bit more careful about all of this.

Anyways, if this were true (which it's maybe not), it would imply:

$$
C_{us} \le J+G\le \frac{2}{3}(\C_\opt+t_*)-G_*+G \le \frac{5}{3}\C_\opt-\frac{1}{3}t_* \le 1.5\C_\opt.
$$

But maybe something is salvagable here?
